<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### Table of Contents

-   [ShootingParticles][1]
    -   [Parameters][2]
    -   [draw][3]
    -   [createToolbar][4]
    -   [positionToolbar][5]
    -   [createText][6]
    -   [changeGravity][7]
    -   [changeRandomise][8]
    -   [setVariables][9]
    -   [createParticle][10]
-   [Particle][11]
    -   [Parameters][12]
    -   [move][13]
    -   [display][14]
    -   [handleInteractions][15]

## ShootingParticles

A class that encompasses the toolbar, canvas including the draw-space.

### Parameters

-   `initGravity` **[boolean][16]** The initial boolean value for the gravity feature. (optional, default `true`)
-   `initRandomise` **[boolean][16]** The initial boolean value for the randomise feature. (optional, default `false`)
-   `initViscosity` **[number][17]** The initial value for the viscosity. (optional, default `0`)
-   `initParticleColor` **[string][18]** The initial particle colour. (optional, default `'white'`)
-   `initMaximumParticles` **[number][17]** The maximum amount of particles allowed in the space at one time. (optional, default `200`)

### draw

The draw function for the ShootingParticles.

### createToolbar

Creates the toolbar which includes: the three sliders (colour, viscosity and size) and the two toggle buttons (gravity and randomise).

### positionToolbar

Positions the toolbar in respect to the current window size. Used when the toolbar is initially setup and when the window is re-sized.

### createText

Draws the toolbar text onto the screen.

### changeGravity

The function that is called when the gravity button is toggled. Sets the gravity variable to true when false and vice versa. Also changes the gravity button colour when toggled.

### changeRandomise

The function that is called when the randomise button is toggled. Sets the randomise variable to true when false and vice versa. Also changes the randomise button colour when toggled.

### setVariables

This is called from the draw function to set each of the colour, size & viscosity variables depending on the value on the sliders. If randomise is set to true the value of the colour & size slider is incremented.

### createParticle

Creates a new particle. Called when the mouse is pressed or dragged. A new particle is created as long as the cursor is outside of the toolbar. Also deletes the oldest particle if the particle limit is reached.

## Particle

A class that represents the Particle component.

### Parameters

-   `x` **[number][17]** The initial x co-ordinate for the particle. (optional, default `0`)
-   `y` **[number][17]** The initial y co-ordinate for the particle. (optional, default `0`)
-   `velX` **[number][17]** The initial velocity with respect to the x-axis for the particle. (optional, default `random(-.1,.1)`)
-   `velY` **[number][17]** The initial velocity with respect to the y-axis for the particle. (optional, default `random(-.1,.1)`)

### move

Moves the particle depending on it's current position and velocities.

### display

Draws the particle onto the canvas.

### handleInteractions

Updates the particle velocity depending on the distance to the other particles and if it is in close proximity to the mouse.

[1]: #shootingparticles

[2]: #parameters

[3]: #draw

[4]: #createtoolbar

[5]: #positiontoolbar

[6]: #createtext

[7]: #changegravity

[8]: #changerandomise

[9]: #setvariables

[10]: #createparticle

[11]: #particle

[12]: #parameters-1

[13]: #move

[14]: #display

[15]: #handleinteractions

[16]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean

[17]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number

[18]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String
